\page getting_started_index Getting Started

This document is intended to help you setup a PowerBlocks SDK installation on your machine. After that a short "Hello World" example will be shown to help build an executable for the first time and run it on the Wii.

# Introduction
PowerBlocks is a SDK providing the compilers, runtime, and various hardware libraries needed for Wii development.

---


# What You Will Need
It is recommended to have an installation of [Dolphin Emulator](https://dolphin-emu.org/) for easy testing.

You will want a Wii with the ability to launch your own applications. For setting up a modded Wii, read the [Wii Hacks Guide](https://wii.hacks.guide/).

An SD card will be needed as it is recommended to launch PowerBlocks generated executables from the Wii's SD card slot for filesystem support.

---
# Installation
PowerBlocks is designed to run in a "Linux-like" environment.

Provided are various methods for installing and using PowerBlocks. Choose from one of the various installation options below.

### Direct Download (Linux)
PowerBlocks provides releases for Linux that are downloadable from the releases page.

\subpage linux "Linux Installation"

### Direct Download (Windows)
PowerBlocks provides releases for Windows that are downloadable from the releases page.

\subpage windows "Windows Installation"

### Docker Container
PowerBlocks provides ready to go Docker packages for consistent use across all platforms.

\subpage docker "Docker Installation"

---
# Launching Executables
The example project created from the installation option of choice generates `HelloWorld.elf`.

This can be launched on both emulator and Wii hardware for testing.

## Homebrew Channel
You will need to install the Homebrew Channel to launch it from [here](https://wii.hacks.guide/hbc).

## Setup
The Wii launches executables from the SD card. On a FAT32 SD card, or Dolphin's virtual SD card, create the following folder tree.

If using Dolphin, make sure a virtual SD card is enabled, and syncing its contents to the folder where you plan to install it in.
```
💾 SD Card
 ┗ 📁 apps
   ┣ 📁 MyProject
   ┃ ┣ 📄 boot.elf
   ┃ ┣ 📄 meta.xml
   ┃ ┗ 📄 icon.png
```

### boot.elf
This file is generated by PowerBlocks. Use the `HelloWorld.elf` from earlier.

**NOTE:** It is common to see a `.dol` file for this. PowerBlock's currently uses `.elf` and does not ship with a `.dol` converter tool, though any converter should work.

### meta.xml
This file contains information and the configuration of the program. Here is an example:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="yes"?>
  <app version="1">
    <name>MyProject</name>
    <coder>Your Name</coder>
    <version>1.0</version>
    <release_date>1763524565</release_date>
    <short_description>Your project's description.</short_description>
    <long_description>
A long description of your project.
    </long_description>
  </app>
```

### icon.png (Optional)
This is an optional **128x48** PNG icon of your program to be displayed from the launcher's menu.

## Launching
Now you can run the executable by entering the Homebrew Channel and launching it.

You can also launch it directly from Dolphin by opening the ELF with Dolphin.

For the HelloWorld example you should see a blank screen with the current text:
```
PowerBlocks SDK
Hello World this is a Wii.
  <THE CURRENT TIME>
```

---
# Conclusion
This has covered installing PowerBlocks, generating an executable, and launching it.

Feel free to dive into more of the example programs to see how to work with various aspects of the system.
 <!-- Doxygen navigation -->
\subpage building "Build From Source"